Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn how to move our WordPress website to be more specific.
We will learn how to move our website from one domain to another or from one hosting company to another
because oftentimes you will build and create your Wordpress Web site at one location that is more private
and that the general public doesn't know about.
And then once you've completed building the web site then you'll want to move it to another location
like your real dot com domain for example.
Now if you've never moved a Web site before it might sound like a really intimidating task where a really
complicated task.
However if we use the right tool for the job moving a Web site is super easy.
So right now let me walk you through the steps I would take if I wanted to move my wordpress Web site.
OK.
So here's my web site.
And remember towards the beginning of the course I used a site ground as my web host and used the free
three month student hosting plan which comes with this placeholder domain.
And let's imagine that at this point I'm happy with my web site and I want to begin using my own real
unique dot com domain instead.
So for example instead of Bradd as one dot site Ground edu site maybe I want Brad's amazing WordPress
dot com or Brad shares the best recipe's dot com.
You get the idea.
So what you want to do is log into the user account area of whichever web host company you're using.
So in my case I'm using site ground but you might be using Balue hoster or dream post or host gator
or any other web host.
But the point here is let's go ahead and sign into the User Account area.
So if you're like me and you're using site ground let's just use this top right log in button.
Every web host company is different.
So there's no way for me to predict exactly what your screen will look like but the same general concepts
should apply here.
So if we want our own custom dot com domain that's going to cost us a bit of money.
And that's true regardless of which web host we're using.
Now if you're like me and you were using a free trial account up until this point you have two options
forward.
Option one is to renew or upgrade your free account in your free Web site into a paid premium account.
And option number two is to just create a brand new website and a brand new hosting account all together.
Now when it comes to choosing between option one and two I would always just choose whichever one is
the better deal or the better price.
So within site ground if you want to renew or upgrade your existing web site you would just click on
my accounts up at the top here.
Here's the hosting account for the test domain that I've been using throughout this course.
So Option 1 would be to click renew or upgrade here.
However at this moment as I'm recording this lesson the better deal to be had is if we click this add
services link in the top here.
And instead of renewing our free account it's a better deal if we just create a new account entirely.
So again from this ad services page we can use this most affordable plan so we can click this order
now button.
Then you would just scroll down and finish filling out the form and then wait a few minutes for your
hosting company to send you a confirmation email.
Then within your new hosting account you'll want to install WordPress most hosting companies will make
that very simple to do.
They will likely ask you what software you want to work with and you just choose WordPress.
OK so then that new WordPress empty canvas Web site will live at your real dot com domain.
So as an example here's a brand new copy of wordpress.
If we look in the address bar we can see that.
No I did not just buy Brad's amazing site dot com but we can pretend we can imagine that this is the
new domain I want to use going forward.
Right so if I jump back to my old WordPress Web site remember it was Brad s one dot as GED site.
So this new empty copy of Wordpress is Brad esque to SAGD you and at the moment this brand new WordPress
Web site is an empty canvas.
So if I jump into my admin area click on pages we can see that it doesn't contain any pages and if I
click on posts it only contains the two starter posts that WordPress creates for us.
So the question becomes how can I efficiently move over all of this content from my old original WordPress
Web site.
How can I move over all of my pages and recipes and travel blog posts and photographs.
How can I move over all of that content into this new WordPress instance in a quick and painless fashion.
Right because it wouldn't be any fun to recreate a Web site click by click again.
We don't want to have to recreate each page and post and reset each setting and upload each photo again
one by one.
That would take forever.
So luckily there is a much quicker way to do it and I will show you that way right now.
So jump back to your original website that you've been working on throughout this course and let's jump
into the admin dashboard area and within the left hand side bar click on plugins.
We want to install a new plug so go ahead and click add new.
All right.
And from this screen lets use this top right field to search for a plugin and we are looking for.
All in one migration.
So here it is the first result it has over 400000 active installs and I can tell you from real experience
that this plugin is amazing.
So let's go ahead and click Install now.
Once that completes.
Then click activate and now we will notice a new option in our Sidebar towards the bottom named all
in one WordPress migration.
So go ahead and click on that.
We see the title of this screen is export site.
Perfect.
Let's go ahead and use this menu down here that reads.
Export to and if we click on it let's use the file option.
So export to file
and then go ahead and click on this download link.
Now depending on the speed of your internet connection and also how many photos you uploaded to your
WordPress website this could take anywhere from 10 seconds to 30 minutes.
But once your download finishes you can go ahead and click the close button here and then look within
your computer's downloads folder or wherever you just saved that downloaded file to.
So in my case I will go into the downloads folder and here's the file that I just downloaded.
OK perfect.
So now all I need to do is import this file within my new WordPress Web site.
So over in this other web browser.
Here is my brand new WordPress project.
Remember this is the one where currently if I go into the dashboard and click on pages it doesn't have
a single page because this is a brand new empty word press canvas.
OK so right now what we want to do is import that content that we just exported from the old web site.
So within your new WordPress lets navigate to the plug in screen.
So click on plugins from the left hand side bar.
We want to install that same all in one migration plugin.
So let's click add new from this screen in the top right field that's type all in one migration.
Here it is again the first result.
Let's go ahead and install and then activate and now in the sidebar within this all in one W.P. migration
option if we hover over it instead of export let's click on import.
All right.
And now it's as simple as clicking this import from menu and choosing file so import from file and then
just navigate to your computer's downloads folder or wherever you saved that export and file just a
moment ago.
So here it is.
I will select that file.
And be patient.
Depending on the speed of your internet connection this could take quite a while.
But once it does complete then click this continue button.
And at this point we are 99 percent done on a lot of web hosts.
We will be good to go at this point but if we want to play it safe we can follow this one last bit of
instructions.
So basically we can just click close here and then in our left hand side bar towards the bottom hover
over settings and from the pop up menu click permalink x.
Now we did just import the database from the old WordPress Web site.
So it's common to need to sign in again here.
And it's important to point out here that you will need to use the username and password from your old
original WordPress Web site not the new user name and password that you set up for your new site.
But once you do sign in you'll be taken to this permalink settings screen what you want to do is temporarily
switch to another option and then scroll down and click save changes and then just immediately send
it back to whatever you had it at or whatever setting you prefer and then just click Save changes again.
Again that step is not necessary on all web hosts.
So really I wouldn't even bother with that unless your web site is acting funny after the import.
But on some web hosts it is necessary.
And really all that it's doing is regenerating your Permalink.
But yeah after that we should be good to go.
So now if I jump over to the front facing website for this brand new WordPress site perfect we can see
that all of my content was successfully imported and copied over.
So check out the address bar.
This is the brand new Brad s.
And I can go ahead and use these links to jump to the photo gallery page.
So I'm still on the Brad asked to site I can click on one of these thumbnails perfect so you can see
that that plug in makes it very simple to move.
WordPress sites from one location to another.
Now at this point the core of my new WordPress Web site is running perfectly.
But before we bring this lesson to a close.
Let's not forget about any third party services that we are relying on.
So for example if I click onto the Contact Us page remember to prevent spam bots from filling out our
contact form.
We are relying on the service named recaptcha.
Remember a few lessons ago when we first set up recaptcha we had to generate secret API keys that were
tied to the domain name we were using.
So in this case because my new web site is.
Brad asked to instead of Bradt as one the recapture API keys are outdated.
So all I need to do to fix this is log in to the recaptures service.
So in a web browser where you are signed into your Google account just perform a Google search for Google
recaptcha from the screen I will click get recaptcha OK from this screen you will see a list here of
all the Web sites where you are using recaptcha.
I just have the one so let me click on it and now if I scroll down to this key settings area all I need
to do is update this domain's field so I can either add my new domain on a new line or if you're not
going to be using your old site anymore you can just remove that and replace it with your new domain.
So I could just change this to a 2 but I want my old web site to keep working for just a while longer.
So on a new line I'll just say Brad asked to actually let us site.
All right.
But you would use whatever your new domain name is k and then down here in the bottom right click save
changes now it might take five seconds or it might take five minutes.
But if we jump back to our brand new WordPress Web site and refresh the contact page
perfect.
So now the recap Sheffield is working on our brand new Web site.
OK.
So that takes care of the recaptures service.
But we were also using the discuss service to handle our Web sites comments.
So let's go ahead and tell discuss about our new domain as well.
So if you visit discuss dot com and then sign in with your account.
Once you navigate to this admin screen for your web site then let's click this edit settings button.
All right.
And from the screen let's look at this Web site you are ballfield right below this field we see a bit
of text that reads changing domains.
Learn how.
So let's click on that and then let's use this domain migration tool.
So let's click here.
Then look for the next step button click that.
OK.
And now within this small field right here.
Just go ahead and update this from your old domain to your new domain.
So in my case all I need to do is update this one to two.
But in your case you would enter your new dot com domain and then click nextstep and then click this
confirm migration button.
Ok and now this screen does warn you that it might take up to 24 hours to complete.
But in my experience it updates almost immediately.
So if I jump back to my brand new WordPress Web site and click on travel and then click on trip to the
Midwest I scroll down to the comments area here we can see that example comment that I left several
lessons ago.
OK so perfect.
That means the disgust plug in is working on our new WordPress Web site.
And obviously if you are using any other third party services that rely on your domain you might need
to perform similar steps and either update a setting or regenerate a key.
Like I just did for recaptcha and discuss.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a clubs in our next lesson.
We will look at a few next steps we can take to continue developing our WordPress skills.
It should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.